---
content_type: page
description: ''
learning_resource_types: []
ocw_type: SupplementalResourceSection
parent_title: Leadership Conference Videos
parent_type: SupplementalResourceSection
parent_uid: b3384108-814d-b684-57a8-cf0f3f681bf6
title: 2011 Leadership Conference
uid: 97422276-f3f3-1f70-f20a-b6f8d0834739
---

Opening Keynote Address by Christine Furstoss, General Electric
---------------------------------------------------------------

{{< resource b9fb801a-8cd3-8498-c6f9-c6a792a600ae >}}

This video is from {{% resource_link "90363f06-6f50-49e7-9eed-eaceed631d90" "MIT TechTV" %}}, and is not covered under our [Creative Commons license](/terms/#cc).

Christine Furstoss, Technical Director at General Electric, talks about her experiences at the company, how she built up her contact network, and how you can realize your leadership potential and learn how to grow your sphere of influence.

Entrepreneurship Panel
----------------------

{{< resource 1104502c-3e2e-090a-432d-c551cb614e9e >}}

This video is from {{% resource_link "90363f06-6f50-49e7-9eed-eaceed631d90" "MIT TechTV" %}}, and is not covered under our [Creative Commons license](/terms/#cc).

Discover how to start your own business or lab. Bettina Hein of Pixability, Daphne Zohar of Pure Tech Ventures, and Dr. Rosalind Picard of Affectiva Inc. each share their unique perspectives on the benefits, hardships, and lives of the entrepreneur, as well as the experiences they underwent and the challenges they overcame to become successful businesswomen.

Networking Workshop
-------------------

{{< resource 02967db5-55e6-a0d5-74c5-f565dc413912 >}}

Your network is one of the most important resources you'll utilize during your entire professional career. Learn how to hone your networking skills, how to give that ever-important elevator pitch, and even those first few words of that first uneasy conversation that could lead to a lifetime partnership. Build your sphere of influence and watch your connections grow. Speakers include Marilyn Wilson and Bob Dolan from MIT Career Services.

Time and Stress Management Techniques
-------------------------------------

{{< resource 80d550ea-da5f-e651-2443-0996930c4455 >}}

Explore stress and time management techniques with Zan Barry and Lauren Mayhew from MIT Medical.